[libc++] Document guidelines for applying [[nodiscard]] (#84000)
llvm/llvm-project: libcxx/docs/DesignDocs/NodiscardExtensions.rst

> ======================================

Reviewer: I would call this file `NodiscardPolicy` instead.

> ``[[nodiscard]]`` extensions in libc++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guidelines for applying ``[[nodiscard]]`` in libc++
```

======================================

> Libc++ adds ``[[nodiscard]]`` to functions in a lot more places than the

Reviewer: Generally speaking this wording needs to be rebased on top of the Tokyo discussion + policy paper.

standard does. Any applications of ``[[nodiscard]]`` that aren't required by the
standard written as ``_LIBCPP_NODISCARD_EXT`` to make it possible to disable
them. This can be done by defining ``_LIBCPP_DISABLE_NODISCARD_EXT``.

When should ``[[nodiscard]]`` be added to functions?
====================================================

> 

Author: This would fall under "where discarding the value is most likely a misuse of the function". IMO we should diagnose these kinds of cases. In your example `any_of`, or if you want to keep identical semantics `for_each`, would be the correct algorithm to use. I think we want to drive people towards writing better code, and this helps. Also, although it's not not _super_ relevant in this case, the side effect some program is relying on may be the result of some library-internal decision that could change as the library evolves. Avoiding people writing code like that is both in their interest and ours.

> 

Reviewer 2: IMHO if you're using the function like that then I think being forced to explicitly cast the result to void makes it clearer for readers that you're using it in an unusual way.

> 

Reviewer 3: I don't feel it's poor style per se. In this case you could use `std::expected`. But I've seen similar creative usage of `std` algorithms in code bases.
IMO the cast to void is a hint to the reader something odd is going on and the algorithm is used in a different way. So I'm still happy to make these `[[nodiscard]]`.

``[[nodiscard]]`` should be applied to functions

> - where it is most likely a correctness issue when discarding the return value.
>   For example a locking constructor in ``unique_lock``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- where discarding the return value is most likely a correctness issue.
  For example a locking constructor in ``unique_lock``.
```

> - where most likely something similar was meant if the return value is
>   discarded. For example ``vector::empty()``, which probably should have
>   been ``clear()``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- where discarding the return value likely points to the user wanting to do something different. For example ``vector::empty()``, which probably should have
  been ``vector::clear()``.
```

  This can help spotting bugs easily which otherwise may take a very long time
  to find.

- which return a constant. For example ``numeric_limits::min()``.
- which only observe a value. For example ``string::size()``.

  Code that discards values from these kinds of functions is dead code. It can
  either be removed, or the programmer meant to do something different.

- where discarding the value is most likely a misuse of the function. For

>   example ``find``.

Reviewer: Not attached to this line: this document should touch on the testing expectations (and briefly how to do it without getting into any details). I'd expect something like

> Applications of `[[nodiscard]]` are code like any other code, so we aim to test them. This can be done with a `.verify.cpp` test and many examples are available (look for tests named `xxxxx.nodiscard.verify.cpp`)

  This protects programmers from assuming too much about how the internals of

>   a function work, resulting in less code breaking as optimizations are applied.

Reviewer 4: Thank you for adding this documentation!

```suggestion
  a function work, making code more robust in the presence of future optimizations.
```
